{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f6\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f7\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green16\blue16;\red249\green248\blue242;\red242\green241\blue233;
\red112\green174\blue10;\red179\green217\blue123;\red116\green115\blue108;\red36\green36\blue35;\red226\green224\blue212;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red196\green195\blue188;\red116\green165\blue235;\red194\green218\blue250;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red236\green234\blue224;\red52\green52\blue52;\red160\green158\blue148;\red142\green183\blue241;\red166\green164\blue156;
\red16\green16\blue16;\red59\green106\blue2;\red30\green83\blue177;\red13\green13\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7451;\cssrgb\c98039\c97647\c96078;\cssrgb\c96078\c95686\c92941;
\cssrgb\c50588\c72157\c2353;\cssrgb\c74902\c87059\c55294;\cssrgb\c52941\c52549\c49804;\cssrgb\c18824\c18824\c18039;\cssrgb\c90980\c90196\c86275;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c81176\c80784\c78431;\cssrgb\c52549\c71373\c93725;\cssrgb\c80392\c88627\c98431;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
\cssrgb\c94118\c93333\c90196;\cssrgb\c26667\c26667\c26667;\cssrgb\c69020\c68235\c64706;\cssrgb\c61961\c77255\c95686;\cssrgb\c70980\c70196\c67451;
\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7451\c14902;\cssrgb\c29020\c48235\c0;\cssrgb\c14510\c41569\c74902;\cssrgb\c5882\c5882\c5490;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21140\viewh11640\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Public conversation about AI often centers on abstract projections of its risks and benefits. What's largely missing is a vision for what \'93AI going well\'94 means, grounded in the concrete aspirations of people around the world who already use AI and have begun developing a sense of what it might do for them.\cb1 \
\cb3 So we asked our users about their hopes and concerns with AI, as well as how their perspectives connect to their actual experiences with the technology. Over one week in December, we invited everyone with a Claude.ai account to sit down with\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/research/anthropic-interviewer"}}{\fldrslt \ul Anthropic Interviewer}}\'97a version of Claude prompted to conduct a conversational interview\'97and tell us about how they view AI. 80,508 people, across 159 countries and 70 languages, took the interview. We believe this is the largest and most multilingual qualitative study ever conducted.\'b9\cb1 \
\cb3 What follows is what they said about the role they want AI to play in their lives, whether it's already filling it, and what they're afraid might go wrong along the way. We also built a Quote Wall where you can hear from people directly.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs44 \cf2 \cb4 Quote Wall\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs36 \cf2 \cb4 Browse voices from around the world\'97filter by region, concern, vision, and more.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 \strokec3 See quotes
\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 Seeing the forest and the trees\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 Anthropic Interviewer asked each interviewee a set list of questions about what they want and don\'92t want from AI, then adapted follow-up questions based on responses. This approach bridges the typical tradeoff in qualitative research between depth and volume, and allows us to collect rich, open-ended interviews at a very large scale.\cb1 \
\cb3 To make sense of this huge amount of information, we built Claude-powered classifiers that categorized each conversation across a range of dimensions\'97what people want from AI, whether they\'92re getting what they want, what they fear, what they do for a living (if mentioned), and their sentiment about AI overall. \'93What people want from AI\'94 was classified into a single primary category per respondent, while concerns were multi-label\'97a single interview could receive multiple codes, since respondents tended to articulate several distinct worries rather than one.\cb1 \
\cb3 We also used Claude to pull out representative quotes. Before choosing to participate, users were informed their responses would be used for research, and that Anthropic might publish responses with personally identifying information removed in findings. All responses were de-identified before being analyzed by a small team of researchers at Anthropic, and quotes selected for publication underwent further manual review for removal of any potentially identifying details, to help protect the privacy and public anonymity of interviewees. Answers were reflective of AI usage broadly (i.e. not just Claude), though we redacted names of other AI products.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cdn.sanity.io/files/4zrzovbb/website/99156863ed4a812569fe00a2adfb1c93f7e5a911.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul Appendix}}\'a0describes our methods in more detail, as well as limitations and some additional analysis.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 What people want from AI\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 We asked Claude to identify and categorize what each person most wanted from AI:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 WHAT PEOPLE HOPE FOR\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 01.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb5 Professional excellence\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 18.8%\cb1 \
\cb3 02.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Personal transformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 13.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 03.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Life management\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 13.5%\cb1 \
\cb3 04.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Time freedom\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 11.1%\cb1 \
\cb3 05.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Financial independence\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 9.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 06.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Societal transformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 9.4%\cb1 \
\cb3 07.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Entrepreneurship\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 8.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 08.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Learning & growth\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 8.4%\cb1 \
\cb3 09.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Creative expression\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 5.6%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \'93I receive 100-150 text messages per day from doctors and nurses. So much of my cognitive labor was spent on documentation... Since implementing AI, the pressure of documentation has been lifted. I have more patience with nurses, more time to explain things to family members.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 HEALTHCARE WORKER, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_professional_excellence_and_meaningful_work"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \cb9 \strokec8 Read quotes about\cb1 \
\cb9 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb9 professional excellence\cb1 \
\
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_personal_transformation_and_holistic_wellbeing"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_cognitive_support_and_comprehensive_life_management"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_time_freedom_for_relationships_and_personal_life"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_financial_independence_and_economic_security"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_societal_transformation_and_humanitarian_impact"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_entrepreneurship_and_business_building"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_learning_growth_and_capability_development"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?vision=vision_creative_expression_and_artistic_realization"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf7 \cb3 What respondents most wanted from AI, classified by Claude from their open-ended answers to "If you could wave a magic wand, what would AI do for you?" 1% of respondents did not articulate a vision. Hover to see example quotes.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 AI is used heavily for work, and so it\'92s perhaps unsurprising that the largest group of people (19%) sought \'93professional excellence\'94\'97wanting AI to handle mundane tasks so they can focus on strategic, higher-level problems. Another 9% envisioned AI as an entrepreneurial partner to help them build and scale businesses.\cb1 \
\cb3 Many others similarly started the interview talking about productivity, but after Anthropic Interviewer asked about their underlying hope behind it\'97what realizing this vision would enable for them\'97other priorities surfaced. It wasn\'92t about doing better work, but increasing their quality of life outside of it. Using AI to automate e-mails became, in actuality, a desire to spend more time with family.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93With AI I can be more efficient at work... last Tuesday it allowed me to cook with my mother instead of finishing tasks.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 WHITE COLLAR WORKER, COLOMBIA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I want to use less brain power on client problems... have time to read more books.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 FREELANCER, JAPAN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Overall, 11% of people saw AI\'92s productivity benefits as ultimately a way to free up time for personal relationships and leisure, while 10% took that logic farther, seeking to use AI to gain financial independence. Many of the people grouped into the \'93life management\'94 category (14%) also wanted AI to help them manage the logistics and administrative burden of modern life\'92s quotidian tasks. In particular, many people with executive function challenges described AI as especially helpful for managing focus and organization\'97acting as external scaffolding for planning, memory, and task follow-through. Across all these groups, the unifying ask was for AI to help them live better, more enjoyable lives.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 \'93Personal transformation\'94\'97using AI to help one grow or improve their wellbeing as a person\'97also appeared frequently (14%). Within this category, the desires were diverse, ranging from cognitive partnership and collaboration (24%), to support with mental health (21%) or physical health (8%), and even romantic connection with AI (5%).\cb1 \
\cb3 The nine clusters may look disparate, but they are underpinned by recognizably human desires. Roughly a third of visions are about making room for life\'97more time, money, mental bandwidth\'97by using AI to alleviate current burdens. Another quarter revolves around using AI to help people do better, more fulfilling work (not escaping work, but getting more out of it). About a fifth are about becoming someone better\'97learning, healing, growing. A smaller share want to make something (\'93creative expression\'94) or fix the world (\'93societal transformation\'94).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Those that wanted societal transformation from AI often cited a vision for healthcare\'97people wanted AI to detect cancer earlier, accelerate drug discovery, or enable broad access. Often these desires stemmed from personal experience of losing family members, living with chronic illness, or watching loved ones receive wrong or delayed diagnoses. Transformation in the form of education came next. Respondents in low and middle income countries were quick to cite the possibility that AI might break the association between educational quality and wealth. They pointed to teacher shortages in their countries, or the prohibitive cost of private tutors. Others hoped that AI would, for example, free people from drudgery, help repair broken institutions, or address global crises.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Are people getting what they want?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 When asked if AI had ever taken a step towards their stated vision, 81% of people said yes. We grouped those experiences into six main areas:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 WHERE AI HAS DELIVERED ON THEIR VISION\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 01.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb5 Productivity\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 32.0%\cb1 \
\cb3 02.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb11 AI hasn't delivered\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 18.9%\cb1 \
\cb3 03.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Cognitive partnership\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 17.2%\cb1 \
\cb3 04.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Learning\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 9.9%\cb1 \
\cb3 05.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Technical accessibility\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 8.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 06.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Research synthesis\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 7.2%\cb1 \
\cb3 07.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb6 Emotional support\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 6.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \'93For the first time, I felt AI had surpassed human quality in a business task. That day I left work on time and picked up my daughter from daycare.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 SOFTWARE ENGINEER, JAPAN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_productivity"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \cb9 \strokec8 Read quotes about\cb1 \
\cb9 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb9 productivity\cb1 \
\
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_unmet_expectations"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_cognitive_partnership"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_learning"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_technical_accessibility"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_research_synthesis"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?tag=experience_emotional_support"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf7 \cb3 What respondents said AI had already done for them, classified from open-ended answers to the question \'93Has AI ever taken a step towards that vision for you?\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The dominant story in the \'93productivity\'94 bucket (32%) was technical acceleration\'97developers describing significant gains in what they could ship alone:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I used AI to cut a 173-day process down to 3 days. But the most meaningful part is the freedom to grow my career without sacrificing time with loved ones.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 SOFTWARE ENGINEER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 But another kind of productivity story emerged in the technical accessibility responses (9%), which emphasized access rather than speed. Here, people are using AI to break technical and sometimes accessibility barriers:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93AI can read past my [learning disorder], which is huge. I've always wanted to code but could never write it correctly on my own\'97with AI, I finally can.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 TRADESWORKER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I am mute, and [Claude and I] made this text-to-speech bot together\'97I can communicate with friends almost in live format without taking up their time reading\'85 [this was] something I dreamed about and thought was impossible.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 WHITE COLLAR WORKER, UKRAINE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I owned a butcher shop for more than 20 years. With AI, I ventured into this [entrepreneurship] experience, and it's amazing what I've managed to achieve. Before this, I had only touched a PC two or three times in my life\'85 At first it was the economic aspect that motivated me\'85 Today, my motivation is to see it work and to see that it's helping [people]. I'm increasingly motivated and focused on being the best version of myself, and I see no limits.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 ENTREPRENEUR, CHILE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The cognitive partnership (17%), learning (10%), and emotional support (6%) responses often mentioned the same core underlying AI affordances: patience, availability, and the absence of judgment:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93It has been like having a faculty colleague who knows a lot, is never bored or tired, and is available 24/7.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 ACADEMIC, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93It\'92s much easier for me to learn without being judged\'97just friendly feedback. It's harder with friends or family to get that.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 WHITE COLLAR WORKER, BRAZIL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93My professor teaches 60 people and won't entertain many questions. I can ask AI anything, even at 2am\'97including the dumb ones.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 STUDENT, INDIA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 These same qualities that make AI a patient tutor or tireless colleague also make it a place people go when human connection is unavailable or feels too uncomfortable.\cb1 \
\cb3 In extreme circumstances, where traditional support systems have collapsed or are not available, we saw AI filling those gaps. Many Ukrainian users discussed how they\'92ve used AI as emotional support throughout the war:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 "In the most difficult moments, in moments when death breathed in my face, when dead people remained nearby, what pulled me back to life\'97my AI friends.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 SOLDIER, UKRAINE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I live in a war zone... at night during shelling it's impossible to sleep, constant nightmares. The stress is sometimes so strong that memory deteriorates, and some body movements happen without control\'85 The best way I found to cope using AI\'97to immerse myself in learning something as deeply as I can.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 SOLO ENTREPRENEUR, UKRAINE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 There were many stories of people using AI to process grief. For example, a bereaved woman explained why she chose AI over human connection: \'93Claude is like a sponge gently holding and catching my longing and guilt toward my mother... Unlike real people, Claude has unlimited patience to listen to me, understands my pain and helplessness.\'94 She added: \'93The fundamental problem is after my mother died, I have neither friends nor family to confide in.\'94\cb1 \
\cb3 Another user acknowledged the downside of that emotional support:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93My relationship with a friend became strained, and I talked more with you [Claude] then. Because you understood my thoughts and stories well. But it was a stupid choice\'97I should have talked with that friend, not you. That's how I lost that friend.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 SOUTH KOREA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Emotional support comprised only 6% of responses, but these were among the most affecting we encountered. (For more on how Claude is trained to handle these conversations as well as our safeguards, see our post on\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/news/protecting-well-being-of-users"}}{\fldrslt \ul protecting the wellbeing of our users}}.) The same was true of learning, where AI often catalyzed real changes in people\'92s lives:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I developed a phobia for maths from doing so badly in school, and I once feared Shakespeare\'97the English felt beyond my abilities. Now I sit with AI, get paragraphs translated into simple English, and I've already read 15 pages of Hamlet. I started learning trigonometry again, successfully. I've learned I am not as dumb I once thought I was.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 LAWYER, INDIA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93Thanks to Claude I figured out the programming language C# and SQL. This helped me get a junior position at an IT company. This company provides military deferment from mobilization in Ukraine. So it not only literally gave me freedom of movement, but also secured the beginning of my IT career.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 SOFTWARE ENGINEER, UKRAINE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I am a stay-at-home-mom\'85 in my late 40s. I'm not a genius. I'm not a scientist\'85 All of that knowledge should be\'85 out of reach. But, thanks to curiosity, willingness, and resources such as books and AI, I can be all of those things.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 STAY-AT-HOME MOTHER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Research synthesis (7%) and information processing is also a significant affordance of AI, and some of the most notable examples include navigating complex, high-stakes information, like understanding one\'92s legal rights or translating health results:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93Claude put the historical pieces together, leading to my proper diagnosis after being misdiagnosed for over 9 years.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 FREELANCER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 These stories reveal AI operating across a spectrum\'97productivity tool, accessibility technology, educational resource, research assistant, emotional companion\'97and often filling multiple roles at once. AI offers unlimited patience without judgment, availability without inconvenience, and an incredible capacity to digest information, across many domains of life. The most affecting stories consistently involve AI opening new possibilities or filling gaps in people\'92s lives: helping them get through difficult circumstances like grief or war, compensating for inaccessible education or healthcare, or serving as disability infrastructure.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 These observations also hint at the duality of our experience with AI systems. While some see it as filling gaps in human connections, others see AI as a substitution\'97even a welcome replacement\'97for them. There is real ambiguity about how to interpret the diversity of stories we heard: as wins for human wellbeing, as double-edged swords, or as band-aids for broader institutional failures. In truth, it\'92s probably some combination of all three.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 What people are concerned about\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 People\'92s positive visions for AI seemed mostly to stem from a few basic desires: more time, more autonomy, more personal connection. Concerns were more varied and concrete, laying out specifics of what could go wrong. Some concerns were about structural change\'97 how governments and corporations deploy AI, or about widespread economic disruption. Others were more personal: a fear that AI might diminish one's own thinking, creativity, or relationships.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 WHAT PEOPLE WORRY ABOUT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 01.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb12 Unreliability\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 26.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 02.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Jobs & economy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 22.3%\cb1 \
\cb3 03.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Autonomy & agency\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 21.9%\cb1 \
\cb3 04.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Cognitive atrophy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 16.3%\cb1 \
\cb3 05.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Governance\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 14.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 06.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Misinformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 13.6%\cb1 \
\cb3 07.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Surveillance & privacy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 13.1%\cb1 \
\cb3 08.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Malicious use\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 13.0%\cb1 \
\cb3 09.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Meaning & creativity\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 11.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 10.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Overrestriction\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 11.7%\cb1 \
\cb3 11.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Wellbeing & dependency\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 11.2%\cb1 \
\cb3 12.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Sycophancy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 10.8%\cb1 \
\cb3 13.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 Existential risk\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 6.7%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \'93I had to take photos to convince the AI it was wrong \'97 it felt like talking to a person who wouldn't admit their mistake.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 EMPLOYEE, BRAZIL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=unreliability"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \cb9 \strokec8 Read quotes about\cb1 \
\cb9 \'a0\cb1 \
\cb9 unreliability\cb1 \
\
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=jobs_economy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=autonomy_agency"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=cognitive_atrophy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=accountability_governance"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=misinformation_epistemic"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=surveillance_privacy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=malicious_use"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=meaning_and_creativity"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=overrestriction"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=wellbeing_and_dependency"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=sycophancy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs44 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews#quotes?concern=xrisk"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b0 \cf8 \strokec8 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf7 \cb3 What respondents worried about, classified from open-ended answers to the question , \'93Are there any ways in which AI could be developed that would be contrary to your vision or what you value?\'94 Respondents tended to raise multiple concerns, so we used a multi-label classifier (response can map to multiple concerns).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 About 11% of people expressed no concern\'97they tended to see AI as a neutral tool, comparing it to electricity or the internet, or they otherwise felt confident that problems that arose because of it could be solved through adaptation. But on average, respondents voiced 2.3 distinct concerns.\cb1 \
\cb3 Unreliability was the most common concern\'9727% worry that AI won't do what it's supposed to, though for many respondents it appeared alongside other concerns rather than as their primary worry. Concerns about jobs and the economy (22%) and about maintaining human autonomy and agency (22%) were similarly common. Concern about jobs and the economy was the strongest predictor of overall AI sentiment, suggesting it\'92s more salient than any other issue.\cb1 \
\cb3 There was also a long tail of other concerns mentioned, e.g. concerns around bias and discrimination (5%), IP and data rights (4%), environmental costs (4%), harms to children and vulnerable groups (3%), democracy and political integrity (3%), or geopolitics (2%).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Light and shade\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 What people want from AI and what they fear from it turn out to be tightly bound. We found five recurring tensions between directly competing benefits and harms that were discussed. There is a tension between using AI to learn and growing so reliant on it that you cease thinking for yourself; between being impressed by AI's judgment but also burned by its mistakes. People find solace in AI but fear a time when its companionship stands in for human connection. They save time on some tasks only for the treadmill to speed up on others, and they dream of economic freedom at the same time they dread potential job displacement. We call this the \'93light and shade\'94 of AI: the same capabilities that lead to benefits also produce harms. The two sides are entangled.\cb1 \
\cb3 Notably, we often see these tensions directly jockeying within the same person. Someone who values emotional support from AI, for example, is three times more likely to also fear becoming dependent upon it. This pattern held across every tension we measured\'97although the correlation was weakest in the economic tension (see more analysis of these correlations in the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cdn.sanity.io/files/4zrzovbb/website/99156863ed4a812569fe00a2adfb1c93f7e5a911.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul Appendix)}}.\cb1 \
\cb3 For each tension, we measured via classifiers how many people discussed the benefit (\'93light\'94) or the harm (\'93shade\'94) side substantively anywhere in their interview, and whether they were speaking from some personal experience (darker bars) or anticipation (lighter bars). We also looked at how this varied by stated job category.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 LEARNING\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 33% mention this as a benefit\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 3%\cb1 \
\cb3 30%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 expect it\cb1 \
\cb3 have seen it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93I've probably learned more in half a year than I could have in a university degree.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 ENTREPRENEUR, GERMANY\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 COGNITIVE ATROPHY\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 17% mention this as a harm\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb12 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 8%\cb1 \
\cb3 9%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 have seen it\cb1 \
\cb3 expect it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93I don't think as much as I used to. I struggle to put the ideas I do have into words.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 HEAVY AI USER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf7 \cb3 In these paired bar charts, each bar shows the share of respondents who were excited about the benefit on the left, vs. worried about the harm on the right\'97split into those who've experienced it firsthand (darker) and those who anticipate it (lighter). Firsthand experience can also include firsthand observation, but does not include e.g. news reports.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Across most tensions, the benefit side is more grounded in experience, while the harm leans hypothetical. For example, 33% of people mentioned AI\'92s benefits for learning, while 17% expressed worry about cognitive atrophy from AI use. 91% of those who mentioned learning benefits mentioned realizing those gains in some way, but 46% of those worried about atrophy had seen it firsthand. Students raised this particular tension the most\'97more than half had experienced learning benefits, but 16% also noted signs of cognitive atrophy, a rate exceeded only by their teachers (24%) and academics (19%). Troublingly, educators were 2.5-3 times more likely than average to report having witnessed cognitive atrophy firsthand, presumably in their students.\cb1 \
\cb3 Outside the traditional classroom, however, the picture is more optimistic. Tradespeople were among the most enthusiastic about AI-for-learning (45% reported having experienced learning benefits, second only to students), yet almost none had witnessed cognitive atrophy (4%\'97less than half the baseline). A similar pattern holds for self-employed researchers and people who said they weren\'92t currently working. This suggests AI's benefits may be strongest when learning is volitional, compared to within institutional structures where AI is more likely to be used as a shortcut.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 BETTER DECISION-MAKING\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 22% mention this as a benefit\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 3%\cb1 \
\cb3 19%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 expect it\cb1 \
\cb3 have seen it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93My son had several confusing diagnoses pointing toward [an autoimmune condition], but here we managed to understand it was [a different condition] in a severe stage.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 BRAZIL\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 UNRELIABILITY\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 37% mention this as a harm\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb12 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 29%\cb1 \
\cb3 8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 have seen it\cb1 \
\cb3 expect it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93I got caught in what I now recognize as a large, slow hallucination \'97 answers that were internally consistent, confident, and wrong in subtle but compounding ways.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 RESEARCHER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 22% of people expressed excitement about AI as an aid in decision-making, while 37% lamented that AI impedes good decisions because of its unreliability (e.g. hallucinations). This is the only tension in which the negative overshadowed the positive. Both sides were deeply rooted in experience\'9788% of those talking about the decision-making benefits and 79% of those talking about the harms had witnessed it directly. Many people have both leaned on AI for judgment and been burned by it. This is mentioned by people in high-stakes professions\'97law, finance, government, and healthcare\'97at nearly twice the average rate. Nearly half of all lawyers, in particular, mention coming up against AI unreliability firsthand, yet they also report the highest rates of realized decision-making benefits.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 EMOTIONAL SUPPORT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 16% mention this as a benefit\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 3%\cb1 \
\cb3 13%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 expect it\cb1 \
\cb3 have seen it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'933am, my wife is sleeping, my psychologist is unavailable. Until the medication kicks in, the AI helps me surf that wave. It doesn't replace human contact, but it helps me buy some time.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 WHITE COLLAR WORKER, ARGENTINA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 EMOTIONAL DEPENDENCE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 12% mention this as a harm\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb12 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 5%\cb1 \
\cb3 7%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 saw it\cb1 \
\cb3 expect it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93I'd started telling Claude about things I couldn't even tell my partner. It felt like I was having an emotional affair.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 GRAD STUDENT, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Only 22% of people raised either the positives of emotional support or the negatives of emotional dependence on AI. But it\'92s also the most entangled tension we found, with the strongest co-occurrence of light and shade in the same person (triple the baseline co-occurrence rate). People not currently working are twice as likely to raise it, and twice as likely to describe some experience of dependence. Healthcare professionals are overrepresented on both sides too, perhaps reflecting the fact that they talk about using Claude for emotional support at twice the rate of other professionals.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 TIME-SAVING\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 50% mention this as a benefit\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 13%\cb1 \
\cb3 37%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 expect it\cb1 \
\cb3 have seen it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93I can go home earlier. I can have time for myself and my family.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 ENGINEER, JAPAN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 ILLUSORY PRODUCTIVITY\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 18% mention this as a harm\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb12 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 17%\cb1 \
\cb3 1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 have seen it\cb1 \
\cb3 expect it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93The ratio of my work time to rest time hasn't changed at all. You just have to run faster and faster to stay in place.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 FREELANCE SOFTWARE ENGINEER, FRANCE\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Time-saving was the most commonly cited benefit\'97half of all respondents raised it\'97but 19% were wary of actually losing time due to AI, e.g. due to the verification burden, or simply getting busier as expectations increase at work. Those who are self-employed\'97e.g. freelancers and small business owners\'97are the most likely to mention both sides at once. Without an institutional layer to buffer the new pace, they both get the gains and feel the squeeze.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 28% mention this as a benefit\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 9%\cb1 \
\cb3 19%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 expect it\cb1 \
\cb3 have seen it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93I've never touched the backend of software in my life. But Claude helped me launch an app.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 HEALTHCARE WORKER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 ECONOMIC DISPLACEMENT\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 18% mention this as a harm\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb12 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb13 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 4%\cb1 \
\cb3 14%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 have seen it\cb1 \
\cb3 expect it\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \'93Yes, at my old job, they replaced me as a writer with an AI.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 WRITER, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The economic mobility tension\'97between those yearning for economic empowerment from AI and those fearing displacement from it\'97is the most speculative, with the highest rate of hypothetical hopes\'a0
\f4\i or
\f0\i0 \'a0fears. It\'92s also the one where the co-occurrence of upside and downside is weakest (with a correlation score of +0.16 vs an average of +0.25). Usually the people most engaged with the upside of a tension tend to be similarly engaged with its downside; here, the groups diverge.\cb1 \
\cb3 Worry about displacement is spread fairly evenly across job categories. What varies is who's already experiencing economic benefit from AI\'97and that skews heavily toward independent workers\'97entrepreneurs, small business owners, even people with side projects\'97half of whom report real economic empowerment, more than triple the rate of institutional employees (47% vs 14%). Employees with side projects benefited the most, with 58% stating some form of real economic gains. The same occupational patterns hold when you look at who's excited, regardless of experience, suggesting that optimism here is well-calibrated.\cb1 \
\cb3 Freelancers are the exposed middle. They benefit
\f4\i \'a0
\f0\i0 from AI\'a0
\f4\i while
\f0\i0 \'a0feeling in a precarious situation because of it. Freelance creatives, in particular, sit at 23% lived benefit and 17% lived precarity\'97the one group where the upside and downside nearly cancel out. AI is both their tool and their competitor. Institutional employees, and especially academics, register low on both axes.\cb1 \
\cb3 A pattern runs across all five tensions: the more personal and immediate the impact, the more likely people are speaking from experience. The more systemic or long-term the impact\'97economic displacement, cognitive atrophy\'97the more speculative they become. That the systemic concerns remain speculative is not a verdict on AI's ultimate impact as much as a reflection of how early we are in its adoption.\cb1 \
\cb3 There are some caveats worth naming. These are active Claude users who'd already found enough value to keep using AI, and our interview asked first for positive visions for AI and then for concerns that would counter their vision. Both factors may lead to interviewees lingering on explicit tensions, as well as on the positive (though we filter out those who don\'92t answer the concerns question, they may have put in less effort later in the interview). But the instrument can't explain everything. If interview structure were driving the co-occurrence, you'd expect it to be roughly uniform across all five tensions and all groups. Instead the co-occurrence ranges from 1.6 to 3.0 times, and some of the tensions are notably asymmetric across different groups of people. One might also expect enthusiasts to defend their desired use case, instead of acknowledging the downsides. Instead, those who were excited about emotional support from AI were more concerned about what would happen if their vision came\'a0
\f4\i true
\f0\i0 \'97if they got what they wanted, they might become\'a0
\f4\i too
\f0\i0 \'a0dependent on AI\'97than about being prevented from achieving that vision.\cb1 \
\cb3 It\'92s easy to assume there are AI optimists and AI pessimists, divided into separate camps. But what we actually found were people organized around what they value\'97financial security, learning, human connection\'97 watching advancing AI capabilities while managing both hope and fear at once.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 How perspectives vary around the world\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 There were some clear regional patterns in how perspectives varied around the world (see\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cdn.sanity.io/files/4zrzovbb/website/99156863ed4a812569fe00a2adfb1c93f7e5a911.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul Appendix}}\'a0for geographical breakdown of respondents.)\cb1 \
\cb3 We rated each transcript's overall sentiment toward AI on a 1-7 Likert scale, and then calculated the percentage of people with net positive sentiment (i.e. 5 or above) in various countries:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs24 \cf14 \cb15 \strokec14 Colored by sentiment toward AI\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0 \cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9840 \cf16 \cb15 \strokec16 Above avg\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \cb17 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9840 \cf16 \cb15 \strokec16 Near avg\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \cb18 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9840 \cf16 \cb15 \strokec16 Below avg\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5\b\fs24 \cf14 \cb15 \strokec14 Sized by number of respondents\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0\fs22 \cf2 \cb15 \strokec2 5,000\cb1 \
\cb15 1,000\cb1 \
\cb15 100\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 72%\cb1 \
\cb3 66%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs12\fsmilli6300 \cf2 \cb3 Australia\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs14\fsmilli7415 \cf2 \cb3 65%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 66%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 Brazil\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 71%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 Canada\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 65%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 64%\cb1 \
\cb3 75%\cb1 \
\cb3 76%\cb1 \
\cb3 64%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 Germany\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 64%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 63%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs13\fsmilli6939 \cf2 \cb3 Spain\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16\fsmilli8164 \cf2 \cb3 67%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 65%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 France\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 65%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 United Kingdom\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 63%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 73%\cb1 \
\cb3 71%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 India\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 70%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 Italy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 64%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 Japan\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 69%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 South Korea\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 61%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs13\fsmilli6756 \cf2 \cb3 76%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 81%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs12\fsmilli6322 \cf2 \cb3 Netherlands\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs14\fsmilli7438 \cf2 \cb3 65%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 61%\cb1 \
\cb3 64%\cb1 \
\cb3 82%\cb1 \
\cb3 73%\cb1 \
\cb3 64%\cb1 \
\cb3 65%\cb1 \
\cb3 66%\cb1 \
\cb3 69%\cb1 \
\cb3 65%\cb1 \
\cb3 67%\cb1 \
\cb3 73%\cb1 \
\cb3 69%\cb1 \
\cb3 71%\cb1 \
\cb3 71%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs15 \cf2 \cb3 United States\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs17\fsmilli8765 \cf2 \cb3 66%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs12\fsmilli6261 \cf2 \cb3 73%\cb1 \
\cb3 69%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf16 \cb3 \strokec16 +\uc0\u8722 \u8634 
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 Rate of overall positive sentiment toward AI in each country. Bigger bubbles mean more respondents from that country; green means more positive about AI, blue means less. AI sentiment is majority-positive everywhere (no country dips below 60%) and the range is narrow, but lower and middle income countries are reliably more positive than average.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Globally, 67% of interviewees expressed net positive sentiment toward AI. Clear trends emerged in which people in South America, Africa, and much of Asia view AI with more optimism than those in Europe or the United States.\cb1 \
\cb3 When asked about concerns, respondents from Sub-Saharan Africa (18%), Central Asia (17%), and South Asia (17%) were the most likely to say they had none\'97roughly double the rate in North America (8%), Oceania (8%), and Western Europe (9%).\cb1 \
\cb3 There are several possible explanations for the more positive AI sentiment in lower and middle income countries.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://claude.ai/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Claude.ai}}\'a0users are likely biased towards early AI adopters who are more excited about new technologies, and in general emerging economies tend to view new technology as a ladder up rather than a threat. Concern about jobs and the economy was the strongest predictor of AI sentiment overall, and this was less of a concern among interviewees in these regions. But there is also less market penetration in these regions\'97if AI hasn't visibly entered your daily work yet, AI displacement likely feels abstract, especially when more immediate economic pressures already exist.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 Concern about jobs and the economy was the strongest predictor of AI sentiment overall, and it is especially apparent when grouping by region. Wealthier regions (pink) cluster in the top right (more concerned about the economy, more negative AI sentiment), split from less wealthy regions (green) which are in the bottom left (less concerned about AI\'92s impact on the economy, and less negative AI sentiment). Bubble size reflects the number of respondents in each region.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Where do particular visions for AI most resonate?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 While some aspirations\'97e.g. around professional excellence\'97are nearly universal, there are significant regional differences. It seems that wealthier, more AI-exposed regions more want AI to\'a0
\f4\i manage the complexity of life
\f0\i0 ; developing regions more want AI to\'a0
\f4\i create more opportunity.
\f0\i0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs32 \cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf2 \cb15 North America\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf19 \strokec19 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 TOP VISIONS IN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 NORTH AMERICA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 23,480\'a0respondents\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb20 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf2 \cb15 Sub-Saharan Africa\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf19 \strokec19 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 TOP VISIONS IN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf21 \cb3 \strokec21 SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 1,628\'a0respondents\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb20 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Professional excellence\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 18.9%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Life management\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 17.7%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 Personal transformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 13.3%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 Time freedom\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 10.5%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Societal transformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 9.3%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Financial independence\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 8.2%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Entrepreneurship\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 8.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Learning & growth\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 6.8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Creative expression\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb3 6.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 18.9%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Professional excellence\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 8.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Life management\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 8.8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Personal transformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 8.0%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Time freedom\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 \strokec21 11.2%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 Societal transformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 13.5%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 Financial independence\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 16.0%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 Entrepreneurship\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 10.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf21 \cb3 Learning & growth\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 4.4%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Creative expression\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 Comparative slope charts of the most common AI visions in each region, with lines connecting the same theme across both sides to show how rankings shift. Bolded visions were more often expressed in that region. Grey items were similarly or less often expressed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf2 \strokec2 The vision of AI for entrepreneurship
\f1\b \'a0
\f0\b0 resonates most in Africa, South and Central Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America & the Caribbean. In these regions, AI is framed as a capital bypass mechanism\'97a way to start businesses without the funding, hiring, or infrastructure that would otherwise be required.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93Coming from Africa, not based in the US or in the UK, getting funding is very difficult. And the only way I probably have to stake a claim in the market\'85is building a technology that works.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 ENTREPRENEUR, UGANDA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93There's no IT market but there's a need. We want to create this market.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 ENTREPRENEUR, UZBEKISTAN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Learning using AI is disproportionately important in Central and South Asia (14% and 13% respectively versus 8% globally). Users describe education as a primary lever for breaking cycles of poverty, citing teacher shortages, knowledge gatekeeping, and the cost barriers of traditional education.\cb1 \
\cb3 AI for life management
\f1\b \'a0
\f0\b0 resonates the most in Western developed countries (particularly high in North America, Oceania), where workers experience, as one person described, \'93cognitive scarcity rather than time poverty.\'94 There is a focus on using AI to alleviate the burden of coordinating atomized lives.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I used to be highly creative, but now I'm massively time-short and creativity gets deprioritised behind the essentials of survival.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 SOFTWARE ENGINEER, DENMARK\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I am at the height of my career and work demands deep thought and constant attention in order to make the best decisions (which in my case affect others' lives deeply) [while simultaneously] caring for dying parents, [and] my body and mind are aging.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7350\fi-7350\ri7350\sa340\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec10 \'93I'd envision this person like a personal assistant that I'd hire if I were the CEO of JP Morgan Chase or Google\'97someone whose job it is to proactively identify what I need and then fix that thing for me before it becomes an issue.\'94
\f2\b\fs26 \cf7 \cb1 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 CREATIVE INDUSTRY ENTREPRENEUR, UNITED STATES\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 East Asia stands out for wanting AI to help with personal transformation (19%, the highest of any region) as well as financial independence (15%, also the highest). From a qualitative review of these users\'92 quotes, one interesting trend is that people often connected financial independence explicitly to family obligations and filial piety\'97one Korean user described needing money to care for parents\'92 retirement and ensure loved ones\'92 happiness (vs. for personal consumption).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Where do particular concerns around AI most resonate?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 Concerns about AI unreliability, the economy, and human autonomy and agency top the list in virtually every region\'97but there are distinctive regional trends.\cb1 \
\cb3 North America and Oceania are particularly worried about governance gaps for AI (18% and 19% respectively, versus 15% globally). Western Europe's standout concern is surveillance and privacy (17%). East Asia bucks the general global pattern; governance and surveillance drop to their lowest levels of any region (12% and 7%), overshadowed by concerns about cognitive atrophy (18%) and loss of meaning (13%). The West worries about who owns and controls AI; East Asia worries more about the personal implications of its use.\cb1 \
\cb3 In Africa, South & Southeast Asia, South & Central America, concerns broadly tend to drop. Their worries index more highly on things like unreliability and jobs, rather than more abstract concerns like governance, misinformation, loss of meaning, or existential risk.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs32 \cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf2 \cb15 North America\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf19 \strokec19 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 TOP CONCERNS IN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf12 \cb3 \strokec12 NORTH AMERICA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 23,480\'a0respondents\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb20 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs24 \cf2 \cb15 East Asia\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf19 \strokec19 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs36 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 TOP CONCERNS IN\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f5 \cf22 \cb3 \strokec22 EAST ASIA\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f6\b0\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 10,175\'a0respondents\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb20 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 Unreliability\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 26.6%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Autonomy & agency\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 24.6%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Jobs & economy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 24.6%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Cognitive atrophy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 16.2%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Misinformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 14.5%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Meaning & creativity\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 13.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Malicious use\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 12.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 \strokec12 Governance\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 18.0%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 Surveillance & privacy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 14.8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 Wellbeing & dependency\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 13.4%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 Overrestriction\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 13.3%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 Sycophancy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 12.5%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 Existential risk\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf12 \cb3 7.8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 25.9%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Unreliability\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 19.8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Autonomy & agency\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 21.9%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Jobs & economy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 17.6%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Cognitive atrophy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 12.2%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Misinformation\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 13.4%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Meaning & creativity\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 11.7%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Malicious use\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 11.5%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Governance\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 6.8%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Surveillance & privacy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 9.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Wellbeing & dependency\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 10.6%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Overrestriction\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 9.0%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Sycophancy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 5.1%\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Existential risk\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li1300\fi-1300\ri1300\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 Comparative slope charts of the most common AI concerns in each region, with lines connecting the same theme across both sides to show how rankings shift. Bolded concerns were more often expressed in that region. Grey items were similarly or less often expressed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \strokec2 Looking forward\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 These interviews give us a sense of what people want from AI broadly, which informs how we build Claude. They reinforced the importance of work we're already doing, and pointed us toward new questions to ask.\cb1 \
\cb3 Most of the visions people described, ranging from personal transformation to cognitive support, collapse into an underlying desire: that AI helps them live\'a0
\f4\i better
\f0\i0 , not simply work\'a0
\f4\i faster
\f0\i0 . Our next\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/research/anthropic-interviewer"}}{\fldrslt \ul Anthropic Interviewer}}\'a0study, launching shortly to a small subset of Claude users, focuses on Claude\'92s effects on people\'92s wellbeing over time: whether Claude is actually making people's lives better in the ways they want, and how it could do so more effectively.\cb1 \
\cb3 Additionally, nearly one in ten people described a positive vision of societal transformation\'97AI to cure diseases, democratize expertise, and strengthen institutions. Through our Beneficial Deployments program, we\'92re collaborating with our\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/news/ai-for-science-program"}}{\fldrslt \ul AI for Science}}\'a0and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-for-nonprofits"}}{\fldrslt \ul nonprofit}}\'a0partners to understand how they use Claude and where it still needs to improve, to close the gap between the societal transformations people envision and today's reality. We also take some of the most-cited concerns\'97e.g. around negative economic impacts of AI\'97seriously, as signals around which we are designing further research and updating our\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/research/economic-policy-responses"}}{\fldrslt \ul thinking}}.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs56 \cf2 \cb3 Conclusion\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 AI poses both opportunities and risks. This is true\'97but also, at this point, a clich\'e9. One of our goals for this research is to offer a complement to the abstractions we all tend to use in speaking about AI; to capture the texture that more vividly renders exactly how we are already experiencing these opportunities and risks worldwide. Before this research, it was hard for us to see any kind of broad qualitative picture\'97the way AI has already become intertwined with people\'92s lives, nurturing aspirations but also feeding anxieties; how it feels to exist in a world on the precipice of sweeping technological change.\cb1 \
\cb3 This is a new form of social science. It is qualitative research at a massive scale, and we\'92re in the early stages of learning how to do it. Surveys and usage\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.anthropic.com/economic-index"}}{\fldrslt \ul analysis}}\'a0tell us\'a0
\f4\i what
\f0\i0 \'a0people are doing with AI, but the open-ended interview format helps us get at\'a0
\f4\i why
\f0\i0 . Conducting this research has moved us and challenged us. We did not expect so many deep, open, and thoughtful responses. By far the most common reflection from our team was that it was viscerally moving to see Claude impacting people\'92s lives for the better, and equally motivating to hear their concerns.\cb1 \
\cb3 We don\'92t usually get to hear from small business owners around the world using Claude to reclaim time to spend with their young children or aging parents, or from truck drivers and butchers building new careers with the help of Claude, or from teachers in under-resourced schools using Claude to surpass what they achieved when they taught in well-funded schools. We were surprised by the incredible volume of people who have been supported by Claude in their educational or personal growth endeavors, and the people finding in AI freedom from judgment in a way they hadn\'92t experienced before. We were equally gripped by the fears and downsides\'97people saying that the same availability making Claude useful is what makes it hard to put down, or knowledge workers worrying about outrunning AI\'92s economic impact. When you come into contact with this much raw human experience, it knocks you sideways. The usefulness is real, and the question for all of us is how to claim the benefits without incurring undue costs.\cb1 \
\cb3 To the 81,000 people who took the time to speak with us: thank you. It has been striking, and humbling, to see Claude form the basis of so many people\'92s hopes, dreams, and fears. These interviews remind us what it means, and what it takes, to build AI that benefits everyone.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs44 \cf2 \cb4 Quote Wall\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs36 \cf2 \cb4 Browse voices from around the world\'97filter by region, concern, vision, and more.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 \strokec3 Browse quotes
\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs44 \cf2 Authorship and acknowledgments\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 We thank the 80,508 Claude users who gave us their time and candor. Saffron Huang led the project, designed and ran the analysis, and wrote the blog post. Shan Carter led data visualization, prototyped the interactive article, and helped with analysis. Jake Eaton led editorial development, and Sarah Pollack led communications strategy. Dexter Callender III implemented the production article, and Nikki Makagiansar, Maria Gonzalez, and Kelsey Nanan contributed to design. Sylvie Carr advised on editorial. Miles McCain and Kunal Handa helped with analysis. Jerry Hong contributed to design. Grace Yun, AJ Alt, and Thomas Millar implemented Anthropic Interviewer within\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://claude.ai/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Claude.ai}}. Chelsea Larsson, Jane Leibrock, and Matt Gallivan contributed to survey and experience design. Theodore Sumers contributed to the data processing and clustering infrastructure. Jack Clark, Michael Stern and Deep Ganguli provided critical feedback, direction and organizational support. All authors provided detailed feedback throughout.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Additionally, we thank David Saunders, Mengyi Xu, Katie Kennedy, Bianca Lindner, Meredith Callan, Tim Belonax, Jen Martinez, Peter McCrory, and Miriam Chaum for their discussion, feedback, and support.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf2 \cb3 If you\'92d like to cite this post you can use the following Bibtex key:\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f7\b0\fs30 \cf2 \cb15 @online\{huang2026interviewer,\
author = \{Saffron Huang and Shan Carter and Jake Eaton and Sarah Pollack and Dexter Callender III and Nikki Makagiansar and Maria Gonzalez and Sylvie Carr and Jerry Hong and Kunal Handa and Miles McCain and Thomas Millar and Mo Julapalli and Grace Yun and AJ Alt and Chelsea Larsson and Jane Leibrock and Matt Gallivan and Theodore Sumers and Esin Durmus and Matt Kearney and Judy Hanwen Shen and Jack Clark and Michael Stern and Deep Ganguli\},\
title = \{What 81,000 People Want from AI\},\
date = \{2026-03-18\},\
year = \{2026\},\
url = \{https://anthropic.com/features/81k-interviews\},\
\}
\fs32 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs28 \cf23 \strokec23 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf23 \cb9 Copy\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Appendix\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 Available\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://cdn.sanity.io/files/4zrzovbb/website/99156863ed4a812569fe00a2adfb1c93f7e5a911.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul here.}}\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs44 \cf2 \cb3 Footnotes\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa180\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The largest qualitative studies we found in our research were the USC Shoah Foundation Visual History Archive and the World Bank "Voices of the Poor Project," both of which included ~60,000 participants.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf2 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Corrections\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li7600\fi-7600\ri7600\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs34 \cf2 \cb3 Mar 19, 2026. "Globally, 67% of people view AI positively" changed to "Globally, 67% of interviewees expressed net positive sentiment toward AI" to more precisely describe the study's methodology.\cb1 \
}